# 3. Generating a sound in Tone.js

The tool of our choice in this tutorial is [Tone.js](https://tonejs.github.io), a great and vast library for creating sounds and music. Under the hood it uses the Web Audio API, which is the standard API for working with audio in the browser.

To use Tone.js we need to include it on our page:

```markup
<script src="https://unpkg.com/tone@13.8.25/build/Tone.js"></script>
```

We now have access to the global `Tone` object, which we can verify by logging it:

```javascript
console.log(Tone)
// Will print:
// ƒ (){if(!(this instanceof n))throw new Error("constructor needs to be called with the 'new' keyword")}
```

That output doesn't tell us much per se, but `Tone` is there and ready.

### Settings things up in our p5 sketch

We'll be setting things up inside our `setup()` function. The absolute first thing you should always do when working with audio programmatically is to **set a low master volume**. I cannot stress this enough! This will save your ears and your happiness. If you play a normalized audio file or make a mistake in your code, you can easily get extremely loud audio in your headphones. So let's do this!

```javascript
function setup() {
  Tone.Master.volume.value = -24 // decibels
}
```

[`Tone.Master`](https://tonejs.github.io/docs/13.8.25/Master) is responsible for routing audio to the main output, aka your computer's speakers or plugged in headphones. Anything that should be audible must connect to it.

### Generating a tone

With the seat belt on we can create our first oscillator using [`Tone.Oscillator`](https://tonejs.github.io/docs/13.8.25/Oscillator). An oscillator generates a sound wave at a certain frequency. It's what makes up most synthezisers.

```javascript
function setup() {
  Tone.Master.volume.value = -24 // decibels
  
  const osc = new Tone.Oscillator({ frequency: 440 })
  osc.start()
}
```

Even though the oscillator is running, we won't be hearing anything. This is because we need to connect it to `Tone.Master`!

```javascript
osc.connect(Tone.Master)
```

Et voilà! You should now hear a tone at 440 Hz \(an A to be precise\), quite dull and annoying.

{% hint style="info" %}
Press the stop button in the p5 editor to make it stop. We will add in better controls for this later.
{% endhint %}

Now that we're generating sound, let's build the world first synthesizer!

